Welcome to this week.
You are now going to learn
about word vectors and
specifically you're going to see how
you can train them from scratch.
Previously, you just
downloaded word vectors and
used them but in this week,
you're going to be able to train them.
In this video,
you're going to learn about the different
applications of word vectors.
And then you're going to learn about the
different ways of training word vectors.
Word vectors also known as word embeddings
are the cornerstone of most consumer and
enterprise uses of NLP.
If you completed course one
of the NLP specialization,
you may remember that you used
pre-generated word embeddings to find
semantic analogies between words and
to calculate the similarity of words.
You could for instance combine word
embeddings with a classifier to perform
sentiment analysis or
to classify customer reviews or
comments from user feedback surveys.
More advanced use cases for word
embeddings include machine translation
systems, information extraction and
question answering.
These are your learning objectives for
this week.
Identify the key concepts
of word representations.
You will represent words numerically so
that they can be used
with mathematical models.
I'll also go over the benefits
of word embeddings and
representing words with numbers.
Generate word embeddings.
I'll show you the general way in which a
model can learn word embeddings from data,
illustrated with some examples
of commonly used methods.
Prepare text for machine learning,
you will transform a corpus of text into
a training sets for
a machine learning model.
I'll give practical advice
that you can apply to
real life corpora as diverse as books and
tweets.
You will implement the continuous
bag-of-words model,
which is one of the many ways in
which word embeddings can be created.
It's a simple and
efficient approach that initially
popularized the use of word embeddings.
There are other techniques like GloVe,
Word2Vec and others can be used to train
them, but for this week, we're going to
look at the continuous bag-of-words model.
If you aren't familiar
with neural networks,
then I strongly recommend that
you go through the first course
of the deep learning
specialization by deeplearning.ai.
If you are familiar with neural networks,
but
haven't used them in a while,
then don't worry.
I'll review them in this week's lecture.